Feat authz bearer (#5916)
authelia/authelia: docs/content/en/integration/openid-connect/oauth-2.0-bearer-token-usage.md

---
title: "OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage"
description: "An introduction into utilizing the Authelia OAuth 2.0 Provider as an authorization method"
lead: "An introduction into utilizing the Authelia OAuth 2.0 Provider as an authorization method."
date: 2023-12-29T20:38:06+11:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  integration:
    parent: "openid-connect"
weight: 611
toc: true
---

Access Tokens can be granted which can be leveraged as bearer tokens for the purpose of authorization in place of the
Session Cookie Forwarded Authorization Flow. This is performed leveraging the
[RFC6750: OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6750) specification.

## Authorization Endpoints

When utilizing the `authelia.bearer.authz` scope clients are able to request users grant access to a bearer token which
can be utilized in place of the standard authorization flows for protected resources by utilizing

> [OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage] authorization scheme norms (i.e. using the bearer scheme) when specifically accessing

Reviewer: `[OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage]` link is broken

> When utilizing the `authelia.bearer.authz` scope clients are able to request users grant access to a bearer token which
> can be utilized in place of the standard authorization flows for protected resources by utilizing
> [OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage] authorization scheme norms (i.e. using the bearer scheme) when specifically accessing
> resources protected via the forwarded authentication flow which directly integrates into proxies. It should be clearly
> noted that this means it is not for accessing
> the Authelia API.

Reviewer: I find this paragraph really hard to understand. Specifically the first sentence is very long and chains together a lot of ideas.  
Here's an attempt at splitting it up and rewording a bit:
```suggestion
When utilizing the `authelia.bearer.authz` scope, clients are able to request users create and grant them access to a bearer token.
This token can then be used following [OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage] norms (i.e. the bearer scheme) to access resources protected via the forwarded authentication flow (i.e. `access_control` rules). It should be clearly
noted that such a token does not grant access to the Authelia API.
```

    will match the token instead of a user or groups (where `<id>` is the registered client id). See
    [Access Control Configuration](#access-control-configuration).
  - The audience of the token is also considered and if the token does not have an audience which is an exact match or
    the prefix of the URL being requested the authorization will automatically be denied.
- At this time each request using this scheme will cause a lookup to be performed on the authentication backend.
- Specific changes to the client registration will result in the authorization being denied such as:
  - The client is no longer registered.
  - The `authelia.bearer.authz` scope is removed from the registration.
  - The audience which matches the request is removed from the registration.
- The audience of the token must explicitly be requested. Omission of the `audience` parameter may be denied and will
  not grant any audience (thus making it useless) even if the client has been whitelisted for the particular audience.

For example if `john` consents to grant the token and it includes the audience `https://app1.example.com` but the user

> john` is not normally authorized to visit `https://app1.example.com` the token will not grant access to this resource.

Reviewer: Missing back-tick:
```suggestion
`john` is not normally authorized to visit `https://app1.example.com` the token will not grant access to this resource.
```

              - 'Basic'
              - 'Bearer'
          - name: 'CookieSession'
      ext-authz:
        implementation: 'ExtAuthz'
        authn_strategies:
          - name: 'HeaderAuthorization'
            schemes:
              - 'Basic'
              - 'Bearer'
          - name: 'CookieSession'
      auth-request:
        implementation: 'AuthRequest'
        authn_strategies:
          - name: 'HeaderAuthRequestAuthorization'
            schemes:
              - 'Basic'
              - 'Bearer'
          - name: 'CookieSession'
      legacy:
        implementation: 'Legacy'
        authn_strategies:
          - name: 'HeaderLegacy'
          - name: 'CookieSession'
```

### Session Configuration

This feature is only intended to be supported while using the new session configuration syntax. See the example below.

```yaml
session:
  secret: 'insecure_session_secret'
  cookies:
    - domain: 'example.com'
      authelia_url: 'https://auth.example.com'
      default_redirection_url: 'https://www.example.com'
```

### Access Control Configuration

In addition to the restriction of the token audience having to match the target location you must also grant access

> in the Access Control section of of the configuration either to the user or in the instance of the 'client_credentials'

Reviewer: Use back-ticks like in other places:
```suggestion
in the Access Control section of of the configuration either to the user or in the instance of the `client_credentials`
```
